# Building a Tree in a ML Framework


---


### intro:


Maximum likelihood is a general statistical method for estimating parameters of a
probability model: for example a normal distribution can be described by two parameters: 
the mean and variance. Instead, in molecular phylogenetics there are a wide plethora of parameters, which include:


* rates of transitions / trasversions / ... between bases
* base composition
* descriptors of rate heterogeneity across sites
* branchlengths
* the tree itself!


The likelihood is defined as a quantity proportional to the probability of observing the data given the model: 


```
P(D|M)
```


If we have a model, we can calculate the probability the observations would have actually been observed as a function of the model. 
We then examine this likelihood function to see where it is at its greatest, and the value of the parameter of
interests at that point is the maximum likelihood estimate of the parameter (_e.g._ the tree and branch lengths).


In this lesson we are going to compute a phylogenetic tree in a ML framework and explore a bit the relative support metrics,
which can inform us of the confidence relative to a split. At this point you should have a concatenation and a partition file; 
if not you can use mine [here](https://github.com/for-giobbe/phy/tree/master/examples).


---


<br/>
<br/>


## inferring gene trees - unpartitioned analyses:





---

<br/>
<br/>

## conclusions: 

In this lesson we:

* carried out a ML phylogenetic inference on both single loci and concatenation.
* explored metrics of nodal support which are often associated to ML analyses (parametric and non-parametric BP,ALRT).
* got confident with the ```.nwk``` format for writing phylogenetic trees.

---

<br/>
<br/>

## further reading: 

Some [music](https://youtu.be/pZ12_E5R3qc?t=26) which has been clearly inspired by phylogenetic methods.
